So let's get started with Deno.
And what better way to get started than to write
our first very simple Deno program.
For that visit deno.land, yes, that is a valid URL.
And there, you will be able to learn more about Deno,
but you will also learn more about it in this course.
Of course, most importantly, you will find
installation instructions for different environments
and also using different approaches.
Now you can, of course use any of the approaches
being listed here depending on your operating system
and what you want to do.
And if you click on this Deno installing here,
you also will again find a nice overview
of all possible ways of installing Deno.
Now we might be getting different installation options
in the future.
For the moment, I will use one of those options.
On Mac and Linux, you can simply copy this command here
into the default terminal.
On Windows you can copy this command here
into the windows PowerShell.
So not the normal Command Prompt you got
on your operating system, but the PowerShell.
Which is already pre-installed in which you can launch
as a program on Windows.
Since I'm on a Mac, I'm going to use this command.
So I'll just paste this here into my terminal,
this curl command and hit Enter.
And this will download this install script,
download Deno and install Deno on my machine.
Now, what you'll see is that once
this finishes successfully, that I won't be able
to run Deno.
Normally there should be a Deno command,
which you can execute by just typing Deno
in your terminal or a Command Prompt.
But if I do that, I get command not found.
But actually I get the fix here as well.
After the installation, that I should manually add
the directory to your Home bash profile or similar.
These two entries to be precise.
You can just copy and paste these entries.
And again, depending on the point of time
you're watching this and on the operating system you're on,
the exact instructions
you are seeing here might differ.
Simply follow the instructions you are seeing here.
In my case, I should add these two instructions
to my bash profile, which is basically a configuration file
for your whole system, which tells your operating system
which commands are available in the Command Prompt,
so to say.
Now, since I'm on Mac OS Catalina,
I don't need the bash profile.
You only need that if you have a Mac version,
a smaller or older than Catalina.
If you have Catalina,
you should look into your users folder
for a .zprofile file.
If you're not seeing that,
make sure you're showing hidden files.
Then you can just edit this and in case you don't have it,
you can simply create such a .zprofile file.
And I'm going to edit it with TextEdit.
And in there, the file might look different for you,
but in there, the only important thing is that at the end
you add these lines you saw in the Command Prompt.
So that's what I'm doing here.
And with that, save that file, close it
and open a new terminal.
So close the terminal and open a new one.
And once you do that, you should be able to run Deno
and it does not give you an error,
but instead entered this interactive mode here.
Now let's explore this and what we can do with Deno
in the next lecture.
So now this was Mac OS, now for Windows,
I'm going to grab this command for the PowerShell
and just open up the PowerShell,
which is a default tool on Windows.
And in there, I'll just copy it in and hit Enter.
And this is now going to basically send the request
to Deno's servers and also run an installation script
to install Deno on our system.
So let's wait for this to finish.
And once this finished, unlike on Mac OS,
I'm not even prompted here to do anything else,
and you probably aren't either.
And therefore we can just go ahead
and type the Deno command right away and it should work here
instead of the PowerShell.
So that's how easy it is to set up Deno on Windows.
And before that also on Mac OS.
With that done, you should have Deno installed,
and if you now restart the terminal
or the Command Prompt or PowerShell,
you are able to run Deno just like this.
This is now a globally available command.
And if you run it, you enter the Deno rappel.
Now, you know the rappel from Node.js.
If you run Node, you enter the Node rappel,
and there you can execute basic Node code.
You can use it as a basic calculator
and you can quit it with control C or control D.
And for Deno, it's the same.
You enter the Deno rappel here.
You can execute basic Deno code.
You can use it as a basic calculator and you can quit it
with control D or by running Close.
Now, the idea is the same.
This is really just a nice playground,
or to try out some things in reality,
you're going to write JavaScript code
or TypeScript code with Deno,
and you can then run those code files
with the Deno executable.
That's how you would run most of the code
when working with Deno.
Now, speaking of that,
let's maybe write some first Deno code
so that we get an idea for how it works
and also so that we can gradually dive
into the differences compared to Node.